# Bar Complaint - draft

Mark Lindquist violated various Rules of 
Professional Conduct when he appeared on a 
regionally broadcasted television news show, 
KIRO Evening News.

On February 22th, 2015, Pierce County 
Prosecutor Lindquist charged me with four 
counts of Felony Harassment for the posting 
of a message and video to Facebook, Cause 
No. 15-1-00747-7.

The Prosecutor added 3 additional felonies 
before the trial, including a Class B 
felony, but after a bench trial, I was 
acquitted of all charges. (The Class B 
felony was eliminated in a pre-trial motion, 
and so never made it to trial.)

Whether a Prosecutor is wise to push 
meritless charges through an entire trial is 
probably a question for the voters of Pierce 
County. But the very public statements 
Lindquist made about me merit the review and 
censure of the Bar Association.

## Public, prejudicial comments

On the evening of my arraignment, Prosecutor 
Lindquist appeared on KIRO Evening News, a 
program produced by KIRO, Seattle that 
broadcasts through cables and terrestrial 
transmitters into homes in Pierce County and 
throughout the Puget Sound area. That same 
evening, KIRO also published an article on 
its website that visually includes the 
broadcast news segment. The video features 
Lindquist’s statements about me. In the 
televised interview, Lindquist said:

** *LINDQUIST: We didn’t wait. We rounded 
him up.* **

Additionally, the written journalism 
accompanying the video of the broadcast on 
the KIRO website also says:

** *Lindquist said investigators consider 
Dempsey a threat, so his office didn't wait 
to jail him. “This is an ongoing 
investigation, but we wanted to move quick,” 
said Lindquist.* **

These statements to the press are (1) 
prejudicial to the cause of justice, (2) 
false, and (3) contradicted by facts present 
in the charging documents.

An accurate statement by Lindquist might be 
“We waited over a month, but the accused 
cooperated extra-ordinarily when made aware 
of our warrant.”

I considered his public statements so 
harmful that I avoided a jury trial. Anyone 
might have seen that television broadcast, 
and formed an impression of me based on 
Lindquist's false and maligning words.

## Background

Law enforcement became aware of the 
complaint on January 12th. I became aware of 
the complaint on February 20th, five weeks 
later, when officers located my counsel 
outside a Superior Courtroom and notified 
him of the Probable Cause for Arrest. My 
counsellor called me around lunch time. At 
1pm, my counsellor said to police that I had 
agreed to turn myself in at the County City 
Building before 4:30pm. I left work early 
from my office in downtown Seattle, and 
introduced myself to sheriffs inside the 
county City building in Tacoma just as I had 
agreed.

## Claim: Investigators consider Dempsey a threat

Regardless of why his staff thought this ridiculous thing,
Lindquist saying this to the press was a clear, concise, obvious violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct.

## Claim: Law Enforcement didn't wait

Lindquist knew how I came into custody, as 
the Charging Papers conclude:

** *The defendant’s attorney was contacted 
on Friday, February 20 by law enforcement. 
At their request, the defendant did turn 
himself in to the sheriff’s office later 
that afternoon.* **

Knowing the enormous time elapsed between 
the complaint and the warrant, I've wondered 
what Lindquist meant by his very public 
statement that he didn't wait. Perhaps he 
was not referring to the five weeks between 
receiving the complaint and contacting my 
attorney. Perhaps instead he was referring 
to the time elapsed between gaining the 
court order for the arrest warrant, and 
knowing I’m in custody. What he meant is a 
question for Lindquist, but not a relevant 
question, because your Rules emphasize how 
large audiences are likely to perceive the 
statements, rather than what was intended. 
In fact, the speed at which I entered 
custody was the result of *my* disciplined 
effort to respond appropriately to the 
court's order, and submit immediately to the 
lawful authority of the state. *I’m the one 
who didn’t wait.* But by claiming his 
actions were purposefully swift, Lindquist 
implies an urgency to apprehend me that 
heightened public opprobrium, and 
is simply contradicted by the facts.

## Claim: Law Enforcement rounded me up

What does it mean to round a man up? It 
means to take him from his freedom, his home 
and friends. It means to transfer his fate 
into the hands of another, his captor. It 
implies effort, such as the effort of 
finding him, gaining control of him, and 
taking him to the place of the captor’s 
choice. Another man might hide from being 
found, resist losing independence, and defy 
efforts to be relocated. All these images 
accompany law enforcement rounding a man up. 
In each nuance, saying I was rounded up 
impugns my character, implying images 
contrary to the fact that by my own 
volition, under my own power, and at my own 
expense, I immediately travelled 33 miles 
into the custody and confinement of the 
state, knowing well through counsel that I 
might not appear before a judge until after 
the weekend. Lindquist’s folksy language 
implies the force of the state was needed 
and employed to gain my custody, which 
suggests I hold lawful authority in disdain, 
and maybe even put up a fight. But the facts 
provide no defense for this false and 
maligning innuendo.

## Worst kind of prejudicial statements

Based on the Rules of your Bar Association, 
Lindquist’s claims are the worst kind of 
prejudicial statements, as they are:

 + Statements disseminated by 
public communication to an 
unusually large audience, 
especially in the juror pool area,
 + Focused on the reputation of a 
suspect facing potential 
incarceration,
 + With a substantial likelihood of 
heightening public condemnation and 
materially prejudicing a trial, and
 + Knowingly false, and therefore 
having no law enforcement purpose.

(One of the three claims, that 
investigators thought I was a 
threat, is true. They were 
bamboozled. The truthful statement 
by Lindquist is a clear violation 
of the Rules of Professional 
Conduct.)

Whatever his intentions behind his public 
statements, your Rules judge them based on 
their likely interpretation by the large 
television and internet audience. His own 
explanation of intent doesn't matter. Please 
draw your own conclusions about what his 
statements communicated about me, and then 
compare those meanings against the facts.

## Conclusion

Throughout his career as an elected 
official, bar complaints were filed against 
Mark Lindquist. Amongst the allegations 
against him were complaints that he and his 
staff violated RPC 3.6 and RPC 3.8 by their 
inappropriate comments in the media, to 
include social media. His false statements 
about me threatened my right to a fair 
trial, and violated rules of professional 
conduct governing extrajudicial statements, 
all so he could seek a little publicity. 
Complaints to your body have not deterred 
continued violations of these Rules. That he 
seeks and derives visibility before his 
electorate based on falsehoods and Charging 
documents rather than Verdicts should be of 
grave concern to all advocates of justice. 
The Prosecutor’s false and solely 
prejudicial statements on the 
regionally-broadcast KIRO Evening News 
impugned my character to a wide audience. 
Fair trials and justice in Pierce County are 
at continued risk as long as Mr. Lindquist 
is permitted to practice law.

