# Dishonest Complainants

It's not hard to understand how bad Lindquist's case against me was.

## Dishonest family lawyer

The first contact to law enforcement was made by an attorney.

In her sworn testimony, my attorney asked her to measure the level of fear she felt toward 
me, and she swore it was 4 out of 5. Pretty scary. So we pressed play on this recording. 

*embed*


While it played, she made a face like she had eaten a worm. After it played, she confirmed 
her level of fear. She repeated a dorky line, "We don't know what he's capable of." It's a 
way to suggest fear while not having any evidence of danger. Apparently she must have become 
terrified sometime after calling the police on their non-emergency contact line.

You would hope an attorney, who is an officer of the court, and sworn to bring truth to it, 
would refrain from spinning a yarn like this. Ms. Young must be unusually committed to 
victory, as she showed no hesitation about lying for her client. Continuing to represent her 
client after claiming to fear me was also a violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct. 
Let me simplify by telling you nobody cares about the RPC's in family court. A dishonest 
attorney can practice law in Pierce County with little risk of disbarrment. And I'm sure
what I've shown here will help her career, because there's always demand for dishonest
people.

## Dishonest dad

A followup interview with a retired fireman added fuel to the fear fire. His claims were 
particularly skillful, which is consistent with his enormous committment to telling lies. 
Like Lindquist, he is a severe narcissist, with a lifetime of experience emotionally abusing 
and manipulating people. His credentials as a recent retiree of the fire department probably 
enhanced his believability with the interviewing officer. Here's a bit more about the actual 
nature of his honesty and credibility, from the Fire Chief:

I have many other examples of his inherant dishonesty, in document after document. A very 
large job for a prosecutor is to notice when people are dishonest, but that work didn't 
happen here. The most bizarre part of his testimony was hearing him yell in response to my 
attorney's claim that he worked a block away from the apartment I shared with his daughter. 
Maybe it was two blocks, but his yelling was a deflection hiding from the question: Why 
didn't he come over if he thought she was in real danger. He focused on quibbling
about distance rather than facing the core question. He's so dishonest that it's boring,
but perhaps I'll share more of his smear work with you later.

## Prosecutor's perdicament

Alas, the full scope of the dishonesty and generations of abuse within his family and career 
is beyond the scope of this explanation. For now just understand that a prosecutor's office 
meets people trying to trick them every day, and it's critically important they get past the 
dishonesty. Lindquist's office did not, and so a judge did it for them. It's my view they 
didn't question their complainants (who they alleged to be victims) because they knew 
Lindquist's statements to the press prevented them from dropping the charges at all.

From beginning to end, my case was handled by a deputy named Patrick Cooper. Since losing 
the case against me, he has been promoted. This is consistent with my belief that I was 
tried to reduce risk Lindquist incurred with his false and prohibited statements to the 
press. Loyalty, not success, was Cooper's valued contribution.
