Today I provided a letter to the Bar Association that 
reports violations of the Rules of Professional 
Conduct, rules established by our state's Supreme 
Court to govern the behavior of all lawyers in our 
state.

As you may know, in 2015, I was tried for seven 
felonies, for a speech crime. Afer a full trial, I was 
acquitted fully of these specious charges.

My life and career in Seattle remains strong due in 
large part to the substantial, ongoing support of my 
family, and I could choose to forget about the dark 
times and struggle that accompanied my arrest, life on 
bail, and full trial in Tacoma, where I grew up.

There are many details of the Prosecutor's choices in 
my case that caused me distress at the time, and 
should concern all advocates of justice in Pierce 
County. But of greater concern, my experience is not 
an isolated incident. Mr. Lindquist has an extensive 
pattern of malfescence throughout his tenure, 
including false imprisonment, and bumbling failures to 
convict dangerous men.

I am also disurbed that he calls himself a good 
Democrat, and I'm burdened with the knowledge that 
most people accused of serious crimes cannot shoulder 
the burden of a full criminal trial, even when falsely 
accused.

To assure justice in Pierce County, we need a 
prosecutor who is dramatically better at separating 
the bad guys from the unlucky ones. Facts are the 
beginning and end of a sound prosecution. Yet in my 
own instance and beyond, Mr. Lindquist has shown a 
very loose connection with the facts.

To inform friends and the general public, I've made my 
full letter available online. In addition, I have 
additional documents that methodically show a pattern 
of unjust deeds by this powerful, elected justice 
official.



which governs all lawyers in Washington 
State. In particular, my letter identifies false and 
maligning statements made by Mark Lindquist, who 
remains the elected prosecutor in Pierce County, where 
I was born and raised.

I've asked the Bar Association to take action based on 
a clear pattern of malfescence in his professional 
capacity.

I have not chosen this step lightly. 


However,
after careful study and introspection, 


My experience 
with the Pierce County Prosecutor's Office is
just a piece of 

