# STEVEN MERRIVAL declares as follows:

1. I am and have been a Pierce County Deputy 
Prosecuting Attorney since 1982. The facts set 
forth in this declaration are true and correct to 
the best of my knowledge. I am the longest serving 
deputy prosecuting attorney in Pierce County and 
have a good understanding of its workings past and 
present. I am uniquely qualified to speak on these 
issues.

2. On June 12, 2015, I filed, with others, a 
complaint with the Washington Bar Association 
against, inter alia: (1) Pierce County Prosecuting 
Attorney Mark Lindquist; (2) Dawn Farina, Chief of 
Staff to Mr. Lindquist; (3) Pierce County Deputy 
Prosecuting Attorney John Sheeran; (4) Pierce 
County Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Jared Ausserer; 
(5) Pierce County Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Lori 
Kooiman; (6) Pierce County Deputy Prosecuting 
Attorney Timothy Lewis; and (7) Pierce County 
Deputy Prosecuting Attorney James Richmond. A true 
and correct copy of the Memorandum in Support of 
Filed Grievance that we filed with the Washington 
Bar Association, together with various appendices 
that we also filed in connection therewith are 
attached to the Statement of the Charges and 
referred to therein, collectively and/or 
severally, as Exhibit 2. The information in 
Exhibit 2 is true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge.

3. I have received and read a copy of Pierce 
County Superior Court Judge Murphy’s Findings of 
Fact, Conclusions of Law, and Order of Dismissal, 
referred to in the Statement of the Charges as the 
“Lindquist Misconduct Findings.” A true and 
correct copy of the Lindquis Misconduct Findings 
is attached to the Statement of the Charges as 
Exhibit 3.

4. On May 12, 2015, I field a Whistleblower 
Complaint with the Pierce County Human Resources 
Director and the Washington State Auditor’s Office 
against Mark Lindquist, pursuant to Ch. 42.21 RCW, 
Ch. 49.60 RCW, PCC 3.04, PCC 3.14, PCC 3.15, and 
PCC 3.16. A true and correct copy of my 
Whistleblower Complaint is attached to the 
Statement of the Charges as Exhibit 4. The 
information in Exhibit 4 is true and correct to 
the best of my knowledge.

5. <mark>In the evening of April 21st, 2015 , Mr. 
Lindquist followed me into the parking garage, and 
said “I have been stalking you. Lindquist said he 
was concerned about a Facebook post from my wife 
Carolyn. Carolyn posted “Come on Pierce County 
clean it up” and “Just to be clear. If two words 
start with the same letter, they do not therefore, 
have the same meaning. VIGOROUS is not the same as 
VINDICTIVE.” Her posts followed the Tacoma News 
Tribune article reporting Judge Murphy’s dismissal 
of the charges against Lynn Dalsing for Mr. 
Lindquist’s vindictive prosecution. I told Mr. 
Lindquist that he should discuss Carolyn’s 
opinions with her. I shared that I had also lost 
confidence in Mr. Lindquist because he had not 
maintained the appropriate high prosecutorial 
ethical standards. I told Mr. Lindquist that I 
agreed with Carolyn, and that the standard Mr. 
Lindquist should be following, but was not, was to 
seek justice, and that prosecutors must be held to 
the highest ethical standards.</mark>

6. On May 8th, 2015, Mr. Lindquist summoned me 
into his office. Mr. Lindquist suggested that I 
had a bad attitude. I pointed out that I was 
concerned with the large number of prosecutorial 
misconduct findings in criminal cases during Mr. 
Lindquist’s tenure as Prosecuting Attorney. Mr. 
Lindquist minimized the violations. Mr. Lindquist 
asked me, given my “attitude”, where I felt I 
could make a contribution in the office. I replied 
that Mr. Lindquist was retaliating against me by 
attempting to transfer me. Mr. Lindquist attempted 
to rationalize a legitimate basis for retaliation, 
stating that management literature demonstrated 
that transfers increase productivity. The Pierce 
County Prosecuting Attomey’s Office has had no 
meaningful trial advocacy training pertaining to 
the issues that resulted in findings of 
prosecutorial misconduct generally, or about the 
improper use of PowerPoint presentations, which 
led to many of those findings of misconduct.

7. The culture of the Prosecutor's Office is one 
of fear and bullying behavior.

8. I am told members of the office have been 
directed by Mr. Lindquist’s leadership cabal not 
to talk to former DPA Mary Robnett, DPA John Neeb 
or me. Many employees fear Mr. Lindquist. They 
fear not visibly supporting one of Mr. Lindquist’s 
candidates or working on one of his candidate’s 
political campaigns. They correctly believe lack 
of such support would adversely affect their 
careers. Mr. Lindquist encourages DPAs to occupy 
positions outside of the office to advance his 
political interests. Mr. Lindquist promised some 
DPAs judicial appointments in exchange for their 
service to him. I observed a young female DPA who 
was visibly shaken after she was approached on a 
street corner by Mr. Lindquist in his Land Rover. 
<mark>She explained to me that she was afraid of Mr. 
Lindquist.</mark> Mr. Lindquist managed to place his DPAs 
on the Pierce County Bar Association Judicial 
Qualifications Committee to help DPA’s Lineberry, 
McCann and his other judicial candidates receive 
undeserved favorable ratings. DPA Dawn Farina 
appointed inexperienced DPA Tim Lewis as Co-Chair 
of the TPCBA judicial qualifications committee. 
Highly qualified and more experienced candidates 
such as Mary Robnett and Karl Williams were 
underrated when compared to Lindquist’s slate. Mr. 
Lindquist’s cabal gathered large quantities of 
blank, signed proxy votes to insure that the PCPAA 
voted to endorse and donate PCPAA funds to assist 
DPA Lineberry's campaign. The PCPAA made a 
political donation of $15,000.00 to the Lineberry 
campaign. Mr. Lindquist directs deputies to report 
back to him regarding what takes place during 
union meetings. Resolution of the Nissen case 
could require disclosure of Lindquist to turn over 
cell phone information. Some DPAs suspect this 
disclosure may demonstrate that Mr. Lindquist has 
used county resources during the workday to 
promote his book sales and conduct political 
activities unrelated to the official duties of the 
office of the prosecuting attorney. Mr. Lindquist 
spends time on his literary career at work. On one 
occasion Mr. Lindquist suggested that I attend one 
of his book signing events and make a donation by 
purchasing an item related to Mr. Lindquist’s own 
campaign fund. Mr. Lindquist uses his position to 
influence voting, including the wide dissemination 
of his personal “Voting Guide for Judicial Races.”

9. <mark>Mr. Lindquist monitors the non-work activities 
of employees for anything that might be critical 
of him. As set forth above, he contended that my 
wife posted comments on her Facebook page that 
were critical of Mr. Lindquist.</mark>

10. Under Mr. Lindquist’s tenure, leadership 
assignments are going to less experienced staff 
members, who do not question Mark Lindquist’s 
wishes and decisions. People Mr. Lindquist does 
not like are not considered “good colleagues,” 
when they do not serve Mark Lindquist’s political 
goals or vindictive ends. The “bad” colleagues are 
given disfavored assignments. Leadership roles are 
given to those considered to be “good colleagues”; 
even after having their cases reversed by the 
Court of Appeals or Washington Supreme Court 
because of prosecutorial misconduct by them. <mark>The 
“good colleagues” are retained in leadership roles 
and not held to the same standards as DPA’s who 
express concerns about Mr. Lindquist’s directives 
and perform their duties in an honorable, 
professional manner.</mark> I am told that DPA Brent Hyer 
was observed copying movies, unrelated to the 
office, on county equipment in violation of 
federal felony copyright laws. DPA Zach Dillon 
misrepresented the truth to Judge J asprica but 
was advanced into Superior Court practice. Upon 
information and belief, DPA Dillon also has a 
familial connection with Governor Jay Inslee, who 
is a personal friend of Mr. Lindquist. Mr. 
Lindquist embroils his office in politics to a 
degree that interferes with the independence and 
impartiality of the office and the objectivity of 
the organizations he infiltrates. His assignments 
often have little to do with merit or ability.

11. I understand Mr. Lindquist permits text 
communications relating to the conduct of the 
office on private cell phones only and the texts 
may not be retained. Mr. Lindquist has dedicated 
significant public resources to protecting his own 
work related texts, including lobbying the PCPAA 
to sign on to an Amicus brief his own deputies 
drafted, which advances his personal interest in 
keeping his cell phone and text records from 
disclosure.

12. I understand that <mark>Mr. Lindquist has engaged in 
dirty tricks, including the creation of phony 
records to mislead public records requests.</mark> Mr. 
Lindquist circulated throughout the office an 
e-mail he had written, in which he stated that 
prosecutors may need to file affidavits of 
prejudice against Pierce County Judge Stephanie 
Arend. In retaliation for what he perceived to be 
slights by the judge against the DPAs, I 
understand that he stated that Judge Arend had 
offended families of the Lakewood police officers 
slain by Maurice Clemmons, by her handling of the 
cases involving rendering criminal assistance to 
Clemmons (Latanya Clemmons, Letrecia Nelson, Eddie 
Davis, and Douglas Davis). Mr. Lindquist 
anticipated releasing the email in a public 
records request <mark>because it would hurt Judge 
Arends’ political campaign.</mark>

13. Despite the disturbing pattern of reversals of 
convictions for prosecutorial misconduct, Mr. 
Lindquist has established no meaningful training 
about the cases that resulted in findings of 
prosecutorial misconduct generally, or about the 
improper use of PowerPoint presentations, which 
led to many of those findings of misconduct.

14. I understand that on or about May 1, 2014, 
over 30 local attorneys, including a host of 
veteran defense lawyers, a respected law professor 
and one former Pierce County chief deputy 
prosecutor, filed affidavits in pending litigation 
(Ames v. Pierce County) in which they accused Mr. 
Lindquist of withholding evidence, defamation of 
Detective Ames, and/ or urging the trial court not 
to sanction Detective Ames or his attorney. Mr. 
Lindquist dubbed these attorneys the "Confederacy 
of Dunces," a reference to the quote by Jonathan 
Swift: "When a true genius appears, you can know 
him by this sign: that all the dunces are in a 
confederacy against him." When the declarations 
were filed, Mr. Lindquist’s lieutenants 
disseminated a list of the declarants to the 
prosecutors in the office. They instructed the 
deputy prosecutors to discriminate against these 
declarants and treat them and their clients 
poorly, including not to make reasonable offers in 
plea negotiations. Those deputy prosecutors who 
chose not to act improperly by following the 
directive, or who questioned the directive, have 
been and continue to be admonished. DPAs were also 
told not to be seen being friendly to these 
attorneys, lest their careers be adversely 
affected.

15. I understand that Mr. Lindquist <mark>keeps a list 
of high-profile media cases and instructs that 
good deals should not be given on those cases 
because the public will notice.</mark> One such case was 
a defendant who had embezzled money from a school 
district, who was represented by Gary Clower. When 
the case was filed, DPA Penner instructed property 
trial team negotiator Frank Krall to treat the 
case like any other case. Accordingly, after the 
defendant paid 75% of the restitution, down to the 
$5000 guideline for the office diversion program, 
DPA Krall agreed to dismiss the case to the 
diversion program. I understand that Mr. Lindquist 
became upset because he did not want the media 
reporting the case had been dismissed, and further 
because Mr. Clower was the attorney. DPAs Penner 
and Krall were admonished for dismissing a media 
case, especially one where the defendant was 
represented by Mr. Clower.

16. Shortly after Mark Lindquist attempting to 
bully me in the parking lot, he casually asked me, 
a Lakota tribal member, when passing me while 
walking outside the courthouse: “Are you going to 
the casino?” On another occasion, when Mr. 
Lindquist and I were dining together at the 
Emerald Queen casino, Mr. Lindquist remarked that 
he thought that payments to tribal members should 
probably be ended because they just use the money 
to buy guns. Mr. Lindquist gave an office speech, 
which he referred to as the state of the union, in 
which he referred to the need for “tribal loyalty” 
in the office. Mr. Lindquist retaliated against 
DPA Diane Clarkson following her testimony before 
the Pierce County Council against his successful 
effort to remove the Minority Bar Association from 
the District Court selection committee. Mr. 
Lindquist assigns to DPA James Curtis, an 
African-American, a caseload to prosecute composed 
predominantly of African-American defendants. Mr. 
Lindquist’s Chief of Staff, Dawn Farina, used the 
“N” word gratuitously in her PowerPoint 
presentation before the jury in the Walker case, 
which the Supreme Court reversed because of 
prosecutorial misconduct. Mr. Lindquist’s office 
does not have any person of color or of ethnic 
minority status in his administration. Minorities 
are not well represented among DPAs and the office 
does not reflect the diversity of the community. 
Mr. Lindquist has created a racially hostile 
workplace in violation of Title VII, the 
Washington State Law Against Discrimination 
(“WLAD”), codified in Ch. 49,60 RCW (cf: RCW 
49.60.180), and PCC 3.16.030.

17. Most of the Pierce County Deputy Prosecuting 
Attorneys (DPAs) are represented by their union, 
the Pierce County Prosecuting Attomeys' 
Association (PCPAA). Mr. Lindquist and management 
DPAs, including Division Chiefs, are excluded from 
the PCPAA. In 2014, the PCPAA held an election for 
its officers. DPA James Schacht filed to run for 
First Vice President. The person in that position 
is responsible for the grievance process for the 
DPAs. Initially, no one else filed to run against 
Mr. Schacht. I am told that Mr. Lindquist has 
expressed that DPA Schacht has been unduly 
critical of him.

18. Subsequently, DPA Erika Nohavec filed to run 
against Mr. Schacht for union vice president. Ms. 
Nohavec is a close personal friend of Mr. 
Lindquist, and the two are often seen together 
socializing. Mr. Lindquist’s management, who are 
not union members, told union- member DPAs that 
they should vote for Ms. Nohavec over Mr. Schacht 
in the PCPAA election. Several management DPAs 
followed Mr. Lindquist's order, including 
Misdemeanor Division Chief Timothy Lewis. Mr. 
Lewis encouraged the office's newest DPAs to vote 
for Ms. Nohavec over Mr. Schacht. One DPA, Annie 
Gutierrez, felt the pressure by Mr. Lewis was 
inappropriat and reported the interference to 
PCPAA officer DPA Lisa Wagner. Due to the 
impropriety of that conduct, the PCPAA held an 
emergency meeting to address the issue. DPA Lewis 
later admitted he attempted to influence junior 
DPAs, but Mr. Lindquist refused to take any 
action, claiming the matter was a union issue. 
However, it is precisely because it is an union 
issue that Lindquist attempted to influence the 
vote.

19. I am advised that Mr. Lindquist, through his 
lieutenants, solicited the PCPAA to make a 
campaign contribution for Jeanette Lineberry, the 
candidate he supported for judge. Mr. Lindquist 
monitors all union meetings and gathers 
information from members to influence the union’s 
collective decision making. A member of Mr. 
Lindquist’s management team contacted DPA Leech to 
tell him that Mr. Lindquist knew that he had 
spoken against Mr. Lindquist’s wishes in a union 
meeting. Lindquist similarly monitors voting in 
the Sheriff’ s Guild.

20. I declare under penalty of perjury under the 
laws of the State of Washington that
the foregoing is true and correct.

June, 2015

Steven Merrival
