# Letter from Pierce County Records

The file this letter refers to can be found at:

[http://ladybug.today/jlynch.xlsx](http://ladybug.today/jlynch.xlsx)

April 13, 2018

RE: Public Records Request, Reference No. 
P000724-031318
 
Dear Herb Dempsey,
 
The Public Records Officer/Ombudsperson received a 
request from you on March 06, 2018. You have 
requested:
 
The history of Pierce County IP, 162.5.43.155 
using dates referenced in attachments, March 2 and 
4, 2018. Include original metadata. (Referencing 
page 4 of your letter: ”the history of this IP use 
could be done now and any further actions by 
Pierce County can be deferred”) (Referencing page 
1 of your attachments: “Who was using the county 
IP during these editing attempts?”)
 
In my last communication to you I stated records 
would be ready by April 13, 2018.  The installment 
received by the Information Technology Department 
has been received and reviewed.  There are no 
records redacted.  I have uploaded the excel 
document to Filelocker, a temporary storage system 
that allows me to share a file with you for up to 
21 days.  You will receive a separate email 
providing you with a link to retrieve the 
document.  It will prompt you for a password.  The 
password is "98338".
 
The produced document contains records for the 
date March 2, 2018 which was the date provided in 
your attachments, page 1.  The second date I 
referred to in the initial summary of your request 
was March 4, 2018 and not a date you originally 
referenced or highlighted in your request, 
therefore no production was made for that date.
 
If you have any questions, believe we have somehow 
misunderstood your request(s) or wish to clarify 
your request, please do not hesitate to contact 
me.  If I have not heard from you within thirty 
(30) days, I will consider this matter closed.
 
Sincerely,
 
Public Records Officer/Ombudsperson
