# Perception v. Reality

For example, James Lynch works for Pierce County Prosecuting Attorney's Office full-time for almost two 
years. Do you know how Mr. Lynch describes his work? (I've added **bold** cuz WTF:)

_Communications expert with extensive experience and a proven ability to **shape perceptions** and manage 
media relationships. Direct public outreach, handle crisis communications and develop press releases. 
Leverage interpersonal skills to build strong stakeholder relationships and lead high-performance teams. 
Research and write creative stories. Produce and promote special projects across diverse media. Use 
digital tools, Internet resources and social media to skillfully deliver clear, concise, informative 
messaging._

His job is to **shape perceptions**. Will Mary Robnett need that service? Or will perceptions form based 
on successes? I'm just spitballin' here.

# Long weekend in jail

Any weekend in jail is a long one. I met some good people there. I felt uncomfortable walking around, and 
mostly stayed in my bunk. The mattress I had was terrible, and my back hurt a lot. Eventually I swapped it 
for a better one that wasn't in use.

On arraignment day, many prisoners were called to a side room to talk with legal assistants. I was the 
only one who explained I had private counsel.

# Arraignment

Arraignment is an exciting time for accused prisoners. A lot of people learn there that no charges will be 
filed against them--they're going home soon.

Arraignment is also a change of company. I had been kept in the non-violent area. At arraignment, I made 
the acquaintence of some scary dudes. I also remember a uniquely brilliant man, a mathmetician with an 
advanced degree and opioid addiction. He was highly respected among prisoners because he knew the 
sentencing guidelines. A prisoner could tell him his criminal history, and he could estimate what the 
arraignment judge would do. How much your bail will be is the only question anyone has for the arraignment 
judge, and this guy's obvious skill at estimating was very valued. But he couldn't figure my case until 
clues emerged.

As each person was called from the arraignment holding cell before the judge, we'd wish them success. On 
their return, we'd ask how it went. They may have just learned they risk years in a prison, or would 
be 
going home soon, so the excitement was palpable, and most were enthusiastic to share. Two phrases common 
to jail were repeated in that pen: *some bullshit* and *it is what it is*.

I'll pause here to point out something you might not realize about jail. In my day, especially in Seattle, 
face-to-face interaction must compete with mobile phones showing social media and the rest of the vast 
internet. In jail, people interact, and are largely returned to a human's normal state of curiousity about 
others, and an eagerness to interact, even with strangers. I joked with the math whiz that people pay good 
money for a Buddhist retreat where there are no mobile devices and cable TVs.

I remember a man whose common-law wife had turned him in days after she says he harmed her. She was in the 
gallery at the arraignment yelling how much she missed him, and how she wanted him back. He explained that 
he did 19 years for a murder he didn't commit, and had given enough of his life to the state. He was a 
physically intimidating figure. He talked about how much his wife drinks, and how she gets out of control 
and becomes another person. Three prisoners gathered close to him while the math whiz explained that his 
wife is an alcoholic, and can't control her drinking like many can. He said he wanted to get out of this 
country, and go to Hawaii. Nobody was going to quibble. We said that was a good plan.

As men returned from seeing the judge, details emerged. Someone noticed a television camera. Through lore 
and logic they knew there must be someone accused of a notorious crime. The math whiz also explained that 
a judge in front of a camera is dangerous, because they must appear tough for the television audience. 
Eventually, Math Whiz and I noticed everyone else but me had faced the judge. He eventually concluded, 
"They must be here for you. You're the Sacrificial Lamb!" I guess this was the hardest moment of my 
interaction with Pierce County's criminal justice system. Math Whiz, who was also a Seventh Day Adventist, 
quoted some theology that brought me some comfort.

I didn't dare wave or smile. In hindsight I wish I did. Anyone who knows me knows I'm not inclined to 
threats or violence, and would much rather make a friend. Tim Leary came to mind, always smiling becaue he 
knew the medium is the message. But the judge was already motivated by the television cameras to show 
dominance over the lawless danger she was told I represented. So I stuck with a stoic face.

To this day, I compare my bail, $75,000, or "seventy five racks" to that of other accused. Back in 
lock-up, this sum made me revered. I must be some criminal to merit that much bail, especially with no 
priors. One charismatic man invited me to share with his group what my crime was. "They claim I threatened 
to murder a judge!" Listeners loved this. "But I didn't do it!" Of course, they said. None of us did.

# Leaving jail

At the exit to the jail, an officer behind some plexiglass returned my personal property. I tried to open 
the door to leave, but there wasn't a handle. "That's kind of the point," she said. She hit the buzzer and 
I was free.

# TV news

That night my family drove me to SeaTac, where I lived. I saw the television broadcast on the internet 
before I left the car. Of course the music video made visual and scary news, when added to the false 
police reports. But Mark Lindquist's extrajudicial comments were icing on the cake for KIRO editors. 
*Considered me a threat. Didn't wait. Rounded me up.* What an illusion of efficacy he provided, a series 
of false statements, made publically at the expense of my reputation, and obviously endangering my right 
to a fair trial. Yeah, Champ. He said what he thought would keep his job safe. Truth was secondary, and he 
thought it was OK to risk everything else as collateral damage.

I walked into my job in downtown Seattle on Tuesday. Nobody noticed I had missed Monday, and nobody even 
saw the news broadcast. For a time, I occupied both the realm of Seattle high-tech, and the realm of 
Pierce County's accused felons.

Weeks later, a man was trying to recruit me to support the data analytics division of a global 
entertainment leader. He realized that he had seen me on the news. He said it was unlikely that I would be 
hired based on what he knew.

# Out on bail

Being out on bail is surreal. Being on bail for a speech crime was another level. Anything I said anywhere
could be used against me.

When Mark Lindquist came into my life,, I was recovering from the most enormous blow of my life. He piled 
a lot of pain on top. It was impersonal pain, the fear of the state's awesome power to accuse and 
incarcerate. Don't underestimate the power of accusations to fuck up your life. I lost a valuable job lead 
because the recruiter had seen the television news. (The press had a right to film me, but Lindquist 
violated three rules governing prosecutors with his contributions.) The deputy prosecutor would show up 
unprepared for hearings, forcing us to reschedule.


When Emily died, he moved me onto his livingroom futon, and I couldn't move anymore. I had worked so hard, 
from dawn to night, to keep Emily alive and our daughter emotionally well. I have 220 pages documentation 
of these days written by the hospice staff that I can't read yet. In the midst of it, and before, Emily's 
dad already began his freaky dirty tricks on us. As she lost walking ability, he was already crafting lies 
and panics to subvert us, but again, that's a story for another day. It made us both incredibly angry. We 
never missed a single chemotherapy or a family therapy session. Sometimes her dad would show up with his 
wives to abuse me in family therapy. Never saw him at chemo. Never saw him in the house as she fell dying.

I'm saying here that I was already emotionally broken when Mark charged me with 7 threats to murder.

My brother had generously housed me in his basement apartment, but as an accused felon, I had to leave due 
to agreements in his child's immediate family: no felons, convicted or otherwise! So I had to move to my 
older brother's garage attic. It's not suitable housing, but he does have a laid back mindset, sitting at 
a little table in his front yard, using a lazy susan to separate blue glass from gravel, a blend of glass 
and gravel Home Depot intentionally pre-blended. Both crises brought me much closer to my family.

Eventually I got back to the singing groups Emily and I enjoyed before I moved to Tacoma. It was so 
strange to feel safe and respected in Seattle again, while shuttling to Tacoma to face down the 
intransigence of the prosecuting attorney, and endless dishonest schemes of Darin Murphy and Heather 
Young. It became a double life for a while.

# See Before my verdict

As it happens, my parents are Pierce County Democrats since forever. The day before my verdict, we 
attended a Dem fundraiser in downtown Tacoma. By pure luck, my assigned seat faced Mark. What a surreal 
moment that was for me. He rode his phone all evening long. What a bizarre and insulting argument he made 
to our state's Supreme Court, that the ownership of the phone was a loophole in our laws governing public 
officials. I never asked any judge to believe something so outrageous. He spent tax funds lavishly on his 
ridiculous position while my family spent painfully to counter his ridiculous claim that I should be 
incarcerated. What a a surreal culmination, to watch him ride his phone all evening, as a recall 
petition drive threatened him in the street, and I studied and derided his fat head and crazy eyes from 
fifteen feet away. He's a danger because he thinks only he matters. Whatever else is going on, he wants to 
make it about him. He'll put you in a prison if he thinks that's what it takes to keep him safely in the 
public eye.

# See Implications of Lindquist's position

Mark accused me of a speech crime. Speech crimes do exist, and I got to learn all about them. The law 
calls the crime he tried me for a *true threat*. You know what I think: He tried me because he went on TV 
and spoke improperly about me, and had to win to paper over that bad choice. If we pretend that's untrue, 
where does that leave him? It disturbs me that an American would believe seven words could and should 
result in seven felonies and over a year behind bars. Any seven words just aren't enough to determine 
intended meaning. Next you'll see him trying someone for the work of a smartphone's auto-correct!

At one point, the prosecutor invited me to accept one misdermeanor, I think it was... I should check. And 
then invited me to specify another outcome and avoid a trial. I asked him to just walk away. In criminal 
court, you deal with a deputy prosecutor, but my attorney explained that there are no trials unless Mark 
Lindquist insists on one. Mark couldn't walk away. How many times have we seen that before? With how many 
obsessions, pertaining to how many abuses of his authority within the press and within law enforcement? He 
gets obsessed and he can't let go.

This guy, who wrote some novels, believed in criminalizing speech, long after it was clear the people who 
called it in were charlitans. This must happen to prosecutors every day. People in conflicts want to drop 
a dime on the other party, and make them sound terrible. There really usually are at least two sides. But 
when you go on TV and talk out your ass about the accused, you can't do the right thing anymore, and just 
drop the charges. So Mark doubled down.

He's either prone to bungles where his mouth gets him in trouble, or he's all for criminalizing 
accidental, unfortunate speech, so long as some stooges will claim to be victims in his fantasy before a 
judge. One of those must be true.

That troubles me. When you compare my case of alleged (and now disproven) felony harassment to other 
cases, there's no comparison. Facts of actual felony harassment include details I remember, like 5 hours 
of death threat text messages, or lengthy, wordy screeds on email that very, very clearly say, "I will 
kill you."

As you see from my testimony at trial, my mind was hazy, not focused, and my thinking was metaphorical, 
not literal. One would think an "author-lawyer" would be the first to comprehend how this might happen, 
but he was the last.

Maybe Mark is obsessed with this particular crime. It's a unique kind of crime, where symbols and words 
are the actual crime. According to documents, Mark Lindquist [became obsessed with the idea that Glenda 
Nissen committed this same crime](http://www.thenewstribune.com/news/local/crime/article26298505.html) by 
sending a death threat to Mary Robnett, even though no forensic evidence tied her to it, and other details 
didn't point to her, either. Maybe as a writer of pulp fiction, he's unusually attached to words. Perhaps. 
But really, I think it's deeper than that. I think Mark has the kind of connection to words and symbols 
that we see in our President. In a post-factual world, symbols don't represent or misrepresent the truth. 
Symbols become truth! It's disturbing.

Once I came to know who Mark Lindquist is, and study his activities further, I came to expect his 
two-sentence condemnations of criminal incidents in the fake or real press, on KIRO FM, or on the TV news. 
This is a guy who thinks he can reach more people with two sentences than with something longer. This is a 
guy who would see the potential for fear from seven words.

I think the whole thing stinks of perception management, and an unhealthy obsession with tweet-length 
ideas. That's disturbing and dangerous, and must not be the future of law enforcement at the highest 
levels.

As a professional writer, I can comprehend how uniquely powerful a few words can be. As a citizen, I'm 
disturbed by how deeply Lindquist engages in shaping perceptions with just a few words, precisely because 
I don't think the Prosecutor should be so wrapped up in perceptions. The Prosecutor should be wrapped up 
in the totality of facts! Convictions, not arrests, should enthuse a prosecutor. It's like Pierce County 
has chosen a prosecutor who sees the job like an appearance on American Idol. It's a mismatch, it's 
disturbing, and it makes me believe the Pierce County judiciary is the only thing preventing a total 
collapse of justice.

A prosecutor's job starts with an arrest. It ends with a conviction.
Mark hypes arrests because he's excited about getting on TV, or
the radio. I don't think he cares about the boring work of
securing honest convictions.

# HMMM

One of his "critics", an [unusually accomplished attorney named Bertha 
Fitzer](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B99TXZsyu_78aGxibWQ5cXhBQlk/view), said Lindquist doesn't 
understand which kinds of activities are and are not violations of the RPC. My theory is that he just 
can't say no to TV cameras and exposure. If he had the discipline to only speak about the convicted, this 
would be fine, but he doesn't discriminate between the convicted and the merely accused. I think that's a 
clue to a lack of discipline and moral character. At my job in the high tech field, I'd love to pass off 
vaporware as my finished work. But that's now how engineering works. That's not how any honest bragging 
works. You do the job, and then you brag. I don't think Lindquist cares enough about what's true, and goes 
with whatever seems cool to say at the moment. That's consistent with a background in reality-inspired 
fiction. It's also incredibly unjust for people caught up in his plans. Once accused, I couldn't even 
respond to him without risking danger. Based on my own experience, and having studied the claims of his 
many critics, I have the sense he doesn't believe in fighting fair.

My family cautions me that Mark tries to hurt people who get in his way. The Busto investigation made this 
pattern incredibly clear. He chose to break the rules governing lawyers when he spoke about me to the 
press. He chose to try me based on the risk that his abuse would result in bad press or censure from the 
Bar Association. Now that I've been acquitted and have come forward, he may seek to abuse me more. His 
attorney, Mr. Fogg, demeans complainants in the press when justifying Mark's bad behavior. Mark engaged in 
cybersquatting to undermine the campaign of a political opponent. Obsessed, he abused Ms. Nissen, Mr. Ames, and Ms. 
Dalsing using powerful County resources. And the Busto Report concluded his public statements in response 
to Mr. Merrival's whisleblower complaint were knowingly false and abusive.

So my family is wise to warn me. It won't surprise me when he maligns me again, questions my motives or sanity or 
something, and of course Mr. Fogg will insist Mark's misbehavior is consistent with prosecutors over 
decades. In a word, that's [gaslighting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaslighting). But if I remained 
silent, I would be turning my back on the remarkably brave people who have already stood up to him. What 
he did to me, he's done to many, including many who lacked the resources I have to resist.

One of the Rules of Professional Conduct insists that statements to a large audience by a prosector about 
a defendant should not risk raising *public opprobrium* about the accused. I laugh about this term. It 
just means words that make the public hate you. Even truthful words may be prohibited under this Rule. The 
accused is supposed to get silence from the prosecutor, so an impartial jury can be found. And the 
prosecutor's case should be made to the court, not to the news-watching public.

I remembered throughout the many hearings and the trial, I thought, "Dude, if you'd just drop this, I'd 
walk away. You aren't the reason I'm here. You know your department got conned. You know you spoke some 
terse, false, and maligning words about me. You don't know (yet) that my own verbal cannons can train on 
you, too. You don't know it yet, but I, too, can raise public opprobrium toward your performance. You 
slandered me based on seven words. I'm taking you down based on seven years. Fair's fair, I guess. If 
that's how you wanna do this, OK."

Now I've found a measure of fun and comfort assuming the persona of [Fake Mark 
Lindquist](https://twitter.com/FakeMkLindquist/), the image-obsessed media hound who has hurt doe eyes for 
everyone who isn't impressed with his badgering, cruel treatment of defendants and subordinants alike. I 
borrow from the clear words of credible sources in court documents and official memoes. It's a turkey 
shoot, because at this point the patterns of narcissistic abuse within the Prosecutor's Office are 
numerous and clear. And I worry that people who can't laugh might succumb to despair. I remember that 
right now there's a guy in jail who couldn't fight back against illicit prosecutor behavior as I have 
done.

# See The custody trial

I didn't prevail. The sharpest fact in my failure was the time of Emily's death. Had she lived another six 
months, I would be in Pierce County, doing everything Emily asked me to do there.

# Ongoing opprobium

Anyone who googles my name sees this. I don't let it bug me. I really did write those words, and associate 
them with that video. And I was called a father in the goofiest news report about me, ever.

The dishonest police reports should not have been accepted as fact, but I understand how and why it 
happened. Still, did Lindquist need to say to the press that investigators consider me a threat? No, and 
it's a clear violation of the that should govern him. Now that the court rejected his claim, I don't see 
him going on TV to correct his earlier statements. He thinks he makes TV for a living. The facts come 
second.

# We can. Will we?

In democracy, citizens need to make the history, through real and overwhelming effort.

I always had a healthy skepticism about the clarity of claims made to a court, and by law enforcement on 
television. Now I know for a certainty that some officials make deeply misleading statements, and once 
made, stand by their untrue words to the bitter end. Lindquist has followed this pattern through more 
controversies than my own. In government especially, our nation is only as good as its leaders. There's no 
magical sure thing that keeps terrible decisionmakers out of power. Terrible people often seek power. Some 
people think it's their birthright to rule, even without accountability or results. Democracy's 
tools--including institutions like an independent court, a free press, regular elections, and standards 
for lawyers enforced by the Bar Association--are society's mechanisms to remove terrible leaders. There's 
absolutely no guarantee these tools will work, but they are the best we have.

# One experience, one voice

One big challenge facing people who wish to remove Lindquist from office is the inherant complexity of the 
work done by the Prosecutor's office. Most trials include a lot of details. How do voters evaluate the 
quality of the prosecutor's work without having to know all the details of a trial, enough to make an 
independent judgement. There are sensible approaches to this:

## Wins v. Losses

Associated Press broke the story on Lindquist's record on appeals, which are the best test of a trial 
lawyer's performance.

## WWWS - What would Wikipedia say?

Here's what it does say:

[Mark Lindquist, the laywer, on Wikipedia.org](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Lindquist)

I built this detailed and meticulously researched coverage of Mark's law career as an elected official.

I've been your humble servant building out this explanation. Over the years since my trial, another party 
has taken a very different approach. I've [written about the ongoing street battle](wp.html) to accurately 
reflect Mark's law career using neutral sources, vs. the person or persons who dilligently and 
intelligently sabotaged any coverage of the facts.

I hope good people can work together again here and do what's in the interest of 
real justice for everyone: The accused, the law enforcement professionals, and the victims of crime all 
deserve an honest authority. The guy in charge now needs to go home and leave justice to those whose 
committment to it is genuine. Please, embrace the necessary complexity of grinding fine to reach justice, 
and leave these dirty deals, photo ops and sound bites behind.

But here's the problem: That guy has $100,000 and a fair amount of name recognition. It's dangerously 
likely he'll be re-elected.

# A challenger and a challenge

I've never met her, but [Mary Robnett](https://maryforprosecutor.com) is clearly an eminently qualified 
candidate for this job. Due in large part to a [rock guitarist 
friend](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Buck), his largest campaign contributor, Mark Lindquist has 
around $100,000 he can spend on keeping his job. That's a lot. He also has name recognition, due primarily 
to enormous efforts at being seen under any pretext, even for fabricating a pretext that he didn't wait, 
that he's rounding 'em up, even when his job only begins the day of an arrest. People see his spooky face 
on all those non-journalism free press pieces. He knows that breaking the lawyer rules lets him be seen by 
large audiences, spinning poetic but unexamined accounts of events he alleges to be crimes, but hasn't had 
to prove. As a commercial fiction writer, he knows how to craft a memorable phrase about the saddest and 
scariest occurances society has to experience. I'm not the first to conclude he treats facts as optional 
in performance of prosecutor duties. Nothing about his enormous investment in fake newspapers like Tacoma 
Weekly and "arrangements" on TV news (like KIRO) makes him good at *convicting* criminals. Do you see King 
county's prosecutor on TV talking about arrested people? No, Dan talks about convictions, because a 
prosecutor's job only starts when there's an arrest. Courts stil place facts first, leaving Lindquist with 
a busted record of prosecuting poorly, expensively, and inefficiently. He doesn't really keep us safe.

Mary Robnett will not waltz into this job. Change can only come when enough people offset all that effort 
in building a PR scheme of tricks on TV and newsprint. How many millions in dirty schemes and huge fines 
will Pierce County blow on this unapologetic liar before voters realize Mark Lindquist is a threat? Don't 
wait. Round him up. Dont stop until this problem is solved in Pierce County.

