The ethics of the N-word are a useful exercise. 
Satirical use by a citizen in a political campaign 
is irrelivant to this complaint. But misuse in 
PowerPoint in front of a jury can force a 
re-trial, as Mr. Lindquist knows.

Mr. Fogg disputes the plain meaning of _we rounded 
him up_. Most definitions pertain to cattle, much 
the way I rounded up milk cows from the pastures 
as a young man on a 3-wheeler in the pastures 
along Spanaway's 200th street. Do you think it's 
appropriate to choose words most commonly 
associated with cattle? Does that phrase fairly 
reflect the facts of my choices on that Friday to 
immediately submit to the custody of the state,
at my own expense and under my own power?
The definitions pertaining to humans are worse, 
suggesting force. Even sending a car would provide 
a stronger defense of this lanaugage. None of that 
is true. Would you deem it fair to characterize 
your own voluntary and immediate submission to 
state custody to be 'gettin rouned up'? Shouldn't 
you shake your hat as you talk that way? And 
aren't you clearly implying a wrastle, lasso, or 
cattle drive to do it? Yee-haw Justice?

As these words are not a duty of the prosecutor, 
but purely discressionary, why not choose clear 
words, and ones that don't imply I'm cattle, or 
that effort was involved?

I do hold the view that I've been mistreated by 
Mr. Lindquist, precisely for the reasons I've 
explained, and for additional reasons, which 
aren't subject of this complaint. Injustice 
sometimes has a way of unleashing extra-ordinary 
resistence. I don't want anyone to experience 
similar treatment, and solumnly embrace the task 
of righting a wrong I myself have experienced, and 
have now also documented as the experience of many 
like me.

Mr. Fogg has spent some time looking around my web 
publications and offering his summaries to you. 
He didn't mention that your own letter to
Lindquist regarding his statements on _Nancy Grace_
appears on my website in an easy-to-read format.

http://ReplaceMarkLindquist.info/grace.html

The full text of an independent invesgitation
also appears on on my website, also in easy-to-read
format:

http://ReplaceMarkLindquist.info/busto.html

And so what if I've written about my experiences 
and shared my conclusions. I don't consider any of 
these publications to be germane to this complaint.

Let's summarize: Informing the public during a 
public danger is the duty of the Prosecutor. 
Informing the public during any non-danger is a 
preference of the Prosecutor. Discressionary words 
should meet the highest scrutiny under 3.6 and 
3.8, and these do not.

As one among many partisans in this cause, I can 
report that I'm not the most motivated or 
passionate for the cause. My mother, now 80, 
collected 150 signatures in the recall effort Mr. 
Fogg called a failure.

Mr. Fogg stated in the press:
"we gotta do this, there's no basis, so just 
dismiss" and your office didn't dismiss.
What's different here that we should believe
Mr. Fogg making the same argument this time?

I take umbrage at the claim that I'm driven by 
emnity toward Mr. Lindquist, rather than a thirst 
for just treatment for all. That low blow is 
personal for me. It takes me back to my upbringing 
in the house my parents built on 200th Street in 
Spanaway. My father's service revolver hung from 
his holster in a message to this toddler that the 
forces of emnity are real, and serious, and that 
lawless hatred must not prevail. This year, a 
different Pierce County Sheriff was killed on duty 
on 200th Street by the forces of lawlessness. And 
it reminds me of my high school, where I served as 
President, elected on a platform, duty-bound to 
contribute my best judgement. And it makes me 
remember Sgt. Emily Rose Murphy, USMC, an eight 
year Marine veteran who spoke plainly about me 
raising her child. Her plain words (Exhibit x) 
were lost in a deluge of confusion, including some 
from the unwise involvement of criminal charges in 
a civil dispute. I think of her drive and 
committment to defend liberty. When I was caring 
for her in hospice, we said often to each other, 
"Semper Fi, do or die." Semper fidelis means 
always faithful. Honesty is a requirement for 
faithfulness. And it reminds me of my career in 
technical writing in the software industry. where 
good words convey truth, while bad words convey 
falsehoods, and lead to engineering failures and 
huge expenses. It's as if my life has made me an 
enemy of the injustice of falsehoods. I'm driven 
to use words to seek the truth, and use them to 
lead against the forces of misinformation.

While Mr. Fogg is critical of my public words, 
strangers have thanked me for my willingness to 
defend democratic principles from all enemies. 
Many have thanked me for speaking truth to power, 
and standing up for transparency when it was under 
attack by Lindquist's own staff, at his command.. 
Exhibit.x In contrast, Mr. LIndquist has struggled 
to comply with laws based on these democratic 
prinicples. Exhibit.Lanaise

Weeks ago an essay I prepared about Mr. 
Lindquist's use of words was widely shared. 
Exhibit.x Clearly I have a critique about his
fitness for office  
that extends beyond his choices about me in front 
of KIRO reporters. My critique is now strongly 
paralleled in his challenger's publications.
Does Mr. Fogg cast aspersions on the motives
of the challenger for publishing their similar
views?

When essays I write 
routinely reach hundreds, it may be because I'm 
speaking truth to power, and revealing and 
clarifying the truths of Mr. Lindquist's career in 
elected office. That's a contribution to 
democracy, not malevolence. Frankly I don't find 
malevolence interesting or healthy, but I do 
believe in cleaning up bad governance. When you 
see something, say something.

Since Mr. Fogg took so much time to discuss the 
charges of his client's failed prosecution, I 
suggest that seven words may not reliably convey 
intent, and much time could have been saved 
through an inquiry about intent prior to charging. 
This view gained substantial strength after 
_Alonis v. U.S.A,_ and I considered Mr. 
Lindquist's choice to proceed after that SCOTUS 
ruling as either malevolance or embarassment on 
his part. Neither should inform decisions to go to 
trial, yet he did. The prosecutor has an 
obligation to justice, including adjustment as 
guidance from the Supreme Court emerges.

Finally, I find Mr. Fogg's summary of the not 
guilty judgement to be lacking. He did not include 
the judge's oral remarks, Exhibit.x. which do not 
center on whether I was Facebook friends, a rather 
incidental detail that could be misconstrued as 
some sort of technicality. I was not acquitted on 
a technicality. I was acquitted because I never 
intended to threaten anyone, a critical part of 
all felony law.

I hope you see how my own experience has brought 
me to the hopeful act of political activism. I 
don't have a malevolant view that Mr. Lindquist 
himself is a bad guy. He's a man from an 
exceptional family who I believe has revealed 
clearly that he is not qualified to be a 
prosecutor.

My step-mother has reported a concerning account 
of Mr. Lindquist touching her inappropriately, and 
has made it clear that she will scream if he does 
so again. She paid my substantial bail, and has a 
right to her feelings. Would you discount her 
words based on her experience?

It's worth note that the matter Mr. Fogg calls _a 
failed recall effort_ satisfied the constitutional
test of review by a judge, who determined
that the effort met scrutiny. It's a high standard!

Mr. Busby,

Mr. Fogg's letter seeks to disparage me, and 
re-litigate the case Mr. Lindquist already lost.

Mr. Fogg repeats the false claim that I directed 
taunts toward the clients of Heather Young. There 
are no taunts. The source of these false claims is 
a single report from Darin Murphy. (Exhibit 1) His 
claims in both a deposition (Exhibit 2) and trial 
testimony (Exhibit 3) were disturbingly dishonest.
Should Mr. Fogg be repeating them as truth?

I suspect one reason we have RPC 3.6 and 3.8 rules 
governing public statements by prosecutors is 
because it's quite possible for a dishonest 
complainant to temporarily mislead them. The 
details of their arrest are the limit placed by 
the court, incredibly factual and basic details, 
which I would not have cause to object to. They 
are presented by the court to strongly restrict, 
not empower prosecutors when speaking to the press.

This is because prosecutors are tasked with 
speaking to the court, not the public.

The OPC and Mr. Lindquist should examine the 
substantial difference between public statements 
about convictions and those about unproven 
charges.

I had the opportunity to meet Mr. Lindquist's 
predicessor, Gerald Horne. He said the accused are 
considered innocent until convicted in a court of 
law, and that would be his only statement to the 
press. In a public Q&A, challenger Mary Robnett 
cited these RPC rules as mandating "silence" about 
the accused, with the only exception being people 
on the run and posing a genuine public safety 
danger.

An independent investigator explained about
Mr. Lindquist's relationship with the media:

xxx quote

Mr. Fogg seeks to mislead you with an unbalanced 
summary of work I've done as a citizen in the 
political arena.

In closing before Judge Lanaise, Lindquist's
counsel explained that he answers to the
voters. I have sought to inform voters,
and have succeeded, to wit, the front-page
TNT article explained 

Judge Lanaise determined that Mr. Lindquist 
committed malfeasance. Your own office determined 
that he should face a public hearing, and could be 
suspended from from the bar. My own public records 
request revealed behavior by his staff deemed 
front-page news by the independent press. In my 
view, an ongoing pattern of malfeasance merits a 
_Malfeasance Guide_, because it's hard to keep 
track of all the scandals. You can review mine 
here. http://piercejustice.info You can also 
review a similar guide provided by the ballot 
challenger, an eminently qualified lawyer familiar 
with the facts. http://factsaboutmark
I consider the similarities between these
sites as a testimony to the relevance and
accuracy of my appraisals.

I believe democratic mechanisms including ballots 
are among the few protections we have against 
dishonest elected officials and the dark, 
self-serving forces they can inflict onto the 
citizenry.

Regarding his footnote citing a tweet,
please consider the declaration of Bertha.

Additionally, consider the summary of
FUSE's Progressive Voters' Guide, which
endorses Lindquist's challenger, and concludes,

<ul>We also have concerns about Lindquist's lack 
of progress toward reducing racial inequities in 
the local criminal justice system.</ul>

It's one thing to use a racial epitat in a 
satirical tweet. It's another to prosecute crime 
in America without a solid focus on how race (and 
class, and disability) influences outcomes. Mr. 
Fogg finds my single word tittilating. I find the 
voter's guide's concern quite grave.

While I'm new to this kind of activism, I have 
worked incredibly hard to amplify and democratize 
conclusions of neutral and respected sources, 
including your own findings about the ill-advised 
Nancy Grace appearance. I have employed persuasive 
techniques including satire, but never 
deception. I have also documented the persuasion 
techniques Mr. Lidnquist has developed that 
circumvent the legitimate press (Exhibit x). Is 
this what Mr. Fogg calls "informing the public" ? 
I call this branding.

Lindquist made more misleading statements more 
recently, in responses to both TNT and KIRO 
reporters, by describing me as a person his office 
prosecuted. (Exhibit.x) It's more accurate to say 
I'm a person his office prosecuted 
_unsuccessfully_.. Is it so hard to be both 
accurate and fair in widely distributed statements 
to the press? Are we doomed to the wilful
shaving down of truths until they're misleading?
Rounded me up? Prosecuted me? His training
in words and employment of a spokesman
has led me to believe his prevarications
are wilful.

But all these facts are neither here nor there, 
because I'm not facing prosecution. Why Mr. Fogg 
focuses on the failed prosecution is unclear to 
me. Let's get to the facts that matter in the 
matter before you: His statements to the press 
about the accused.

1. I waived my jury trial due to Mr. Lindquist's 
public statements, denying me of my right to a 
jury.

Mr. Fogg correctly documents the sequence of 
events that resulted in a bench (non-jury) trial. 
My original request to waive the jury had to be 
withdrawn because the judge shared an office with 
the other judge I stood accused of threatening to 
murder. Judge Culpepper explained that the only 
way to honor my request was to get a different 
judge, or accept a jury. I could not afford 
further delay, because I could not resolve the 
custody trial until the criminal trial was 
resolved. But when the judge eliminated the most 
serious charge pertaining to his peer in response 
to a _pre-trail_ motion, I was then able again to 
choose a bench trial without further delay. A 
speedy trial is another right, and unlike the 
prosecutor, the county's treasury is not available 
to me. The facts show my concerted effort to avoid 
a jury trial, precisely because Mr. Lindquist 
spoke inapporiately and falsely to an unusually 
large audience about me.


https://progressivevotersguide.com/washington/2018/primary/county/pierce/

