# The parties

My story began in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico over ten years 
ago. Maybe it began the day I took this picture:

xxx

... but you can skip ahead to 2013, when it was clear my 
friend would die. In December, I came to Tacoma to care for 
her as she did, and to give our daughter everything we 
could through the crisis. I had no idea what hostile and 
underhanded forces laid in wait for me.

# The custody dispute

My friend and I did everything we could to assure her 
daughter would be raised according to her wishes. But my 
friend's father did everything he could legally do--and 
then some--to subvert her wishes. You can study the insane 
custody court battle that ensued.

# See The alleged crime

It meant the world to step out to a New Year's party with 
good friends. I got wild singing about the hard year behind 
me, and good one ahead. I barely remember the deed 
Lindquist called a crime. I have no dispute it was a very 
bad idea, but was never a crime. I chose the wrong words. 
In a career of trying to choose the right ones, I chose the 
wrong ones, not based on my meaning, but based on how they 
could be interpreted differently. It was incredibly late 
when I wrote seven words and fell asleep.

# Scary police reports

It takes some work to translate a Facebook post into an 
arrest warrant. Three people who said they were my victims 
worked hard to get to that point. Two were dishonest, and 
one was just in way over her head.

# See Finally, someone tells me what's up

# TV news

I walked into my job in downtown Seattle on Tuesday. Nobody 
noticed I had missed Monday, and nobody even saw the news 
broadcast. For a time, I occupied both the realm of Seattle 
high-tech, and the realm of Pierce County's accused.

# Living on bail

A man was trying to recruit me to support the data 
analytics division of a global entertainment leader. He 
realized that he had seen me on the news. He said it was 
unlikely that I would be hired based on what he knew.

# See The recall effort

Try to imagine my surprise when I'm out on bail and learn 
that citizens have accused Lindquist of serious offenses in 
office, most notably an unhealthy pattern of going on TV to 
talk about people accused of crimes. In my own county 
(King), the prosecutor might be visible after a 
conviction--after all his work culminates in a persuaded 
jury. In legal terms, the difference between public 
statements about the accused vs. the convicted is a huge 
one. My family quickly joined the movement to remove 
Lindquist. My mom may have gathered a hundred signatures in 
her gated retirement community alone.

I've often reflected that America gives many elected 
officials 4 years to screw up. We rarely remove officials 
during their term. Rather, we just find someone better at 
the next election. Recalls are notoriously complicated to 
achieve, and I admire how hard so many worked at this high 
goal. While the recall effort didn't get adequate 
signatures to proceed, it did get a judge's blessing, a 
critical step the law requires to affirm that in fact it is 
very likely the official committed acts that merit removal 
from office. Since then, the evidence has grown stronger 
and louder.

[The petition contends Lindquist pays extra attention to 
criminal cases that receive media attention, and seeks 
harsher penalties for defendants in such 
cases.](http://www.thenewstribune.com/news/local/article26347357.html)

# SCOTUS and me

Being out on bail is surreal. Being on bail for a speech 
crime was another level. Anything I say anywhere could be 
used against me. My lawyer explained that even clicking 
Like on Facebook could be used against me somehow. I knew 
Lindquist's office

# See Goofy scenario

My case was very unusual. People in civil court often love 
the idea of involving the prosecutor. It can give a huge 
advantage to their lot in civil court when they opposing 
party is in jail, or silent due to their Fifth Amendment 
right to be so. Any sound prosecutor would see bright 
yellow flags when a party in a civil case insists they're 
victims of a crime perpetrated by their opponent. But this 
prosecutor went on TV, and I believe that prevented him 
from ever having a come-to-Jesus moment about the quality 
of his case.

# Lindquist doubles down

I remember the deputy prosecutor looking at me intensely 
after piling on the charges on the day the trial began. I 
didn't understand how we had come from Lindquist on 
television saying there was an actual investigation, to 
this point where a rational man would conclude an actual 
investigation was concluded, and as a result, my act was 
deemed even worse than it appeared at the initial 
arraignment. You would think actual investigation yield 
actual results, a deeper understanding, and a refinement of 
focus. With Lindquist, you'd be wrong. Having been accused 
of terrible crimes against a child, I already had an 
enormous report prepared by Washington's top expert in 
violent criminals. He unequivocally declared that I'm a 
harmless person. An enormous body of evidence confirmed 
that.

To be accused of threatening to murder a judge I had only 
great feelings toward was particularly insulting and 
surreal. The judge had studied all the documents in my 
custody case, and ruled unequivocally that the opposing 
attorney's request was without merit. And Lindquist's 
deputy was going to argue I wanted to communicate a murder 
threat? It was insane.

The prosecutor believed I could see over a year in prison 
for the seven words he called a crime.

# See Ridiculous trial

This can't be the first time aa party in civil court has 
tried to use the Prosecutor's office to engage the 
counter-party. Prosecutors are supposed to see through this 
behavior. Mark Lindquist did not, or he did, but also knew 
if he simply dropped it, his appearance on television would 
risk yet another bar complaint for yet another TV apperance 
where he violates the Rules of Professional Conduct. So he 
didn't drop it. But he lost anyway.

Over a long weekend in jail, I met so many men who have 
nowhere near the resources I and my family could muster 
against Lindquist's opposition.

## See Very confused G.A.L.

She was removed from the custody case because she failed 
her client.

She said she got two or three guns. She must have read 200 
pages of hostile accusations against me. Nowhere in any was 
there any accusation of violence. But I think she got 
whipped up by the excitement of a police investigation. The 
court confirmed that she was inappropriately involved when 
they removed her.

## See Dishonest dad


## See Dishonest attorney

Alleged victim Heather Young's testimony illustrates just 
how bad Lindquist's case against me was. On the witness 
stand, she estimated her fear of me as "a 4 out of 5". but 
here's her voice at the time of the alleged crime:

So while she testified, we just pressed play. You should 
have seen her face. She's no stranger to violating the 
Rules of Professional Conduct.

## See My testimony

Testifying wasn't fun, but it was heartening. The surreal 
accusations made no sense in the face of the truth. And 
that's my experience with Lindquist: He projects a bizarre 
and surreal set of explanations for things. When there's a 
candidate like Mary Robnett countering with real, clear 
statements of fact, it's heartening. "Win at all costs" 
seems like his tactic, if you can call it a tactic. I just 
think he's got a mental illness. There, I said it.

# See The verdict

Lindquist lost, rather spectactularly. The judge convicted 
me of nothing. The deputy prosecutor who handled every 
aspect of my case from the arrest warrant to the verdict 
was promoted. Lindquist loves loyalty, I guess.

# See Bar complaint

It took a very long time before the facts of my bar 
complaint came into focus. Lindquist has an "absolute 
right" to try me. I have no recourse regarding the extreme 
expense he burdened onto my family. But why did he go on 
TV? And what did he say about me there? I would come to 
understand his statements were clear, unequivocal 
violations of the Rules of Professional Conduct, standard 
national rules that govern all lawyers, with special rules 
for prosecutors.

One of his "critics", an unusually accomplished attorney 
named Bertha, said Lindquist doesn't understand which kinds 
of activities are and are not violations of the RPC. My 
theory is that he just can't say no to TV cameras and 
exposure. If he had the discipline to only speak about the 
convicted, this would be fine, but he doesn't discriminate 
between the convicted and the merely accused. I think 
that's a clue to a lack of discpline and moral character. 
At my job in the high tech field, I'd love to pass off 
vaporware as my demo. That's now how engineering works. 
That's not how any honest bragging works. You do the job, 
and then you brag. I don't think Lindquist cares enough 
about what's true, and goes with whatever seems cool to say 
at the moment. That's consistent with a background in 
reality-inspired fiction. It's also incredibly unjust for 
people caught up in his sights. Once accused, I couldn't 
even respond to him without risking danger. Based on my own 
experience, and having studied the claims of his many 
critics, I have the sense he doesn't believe in fighting 
fair.

## More abuse

My family reminds me that Mark hurts those who stand in his 
way. He chose to break the rules governing lawyers when he 
spoke about me to the press. Now that I've been acquitted, 
and have come forward seeking redress, he'll abuse me more. 
I've seen his abusive slams on detractors in the press, 
sometimes delivered through his attorney. I've also studied 
what he does to political opponents and work subordinates 
who do not agree with his judgement. It won't surprise me 
when he maligns me again. As many before me have, I'll take 
the abuse. Sometimes it's a price that's paid to end 
injustice. What he did to me, he's done to many. Many 
lacked the resources I have to fight back.

# See Public opprobrium

One of the Rules of Professional Conduct insists that 
statements to a large audience by a prosector about a 
defendant should not risk raising *public opprobrium* about 
the accused. I laugh about this term. It means words that 
make the public hate you. He used those words regarding me. 
I remembered as it happened, and throughout the many 
hearings and the trial, I thought, "Dude, if you'd just 
drop this, I'd walk away. You aren't the reason I'm here. 
You know your department got conned. You don't know (yet) 
that my own verbal cannons can train on you. You don't know 
it yet, but I, too, can raise public opprobrium toward your 
performance. You slandered me based on seven words. I'm 
taking you down based on seven years. Fair's fair, I guess. 
If that's how you wanna do this, OK."

Now I've found a measure of fun and comfort assuming the 
persona of Fake Mark Lidquist, the self-obsessed media 
hound who has hurt doe eyes for everyone who isn't 
impressed with his badgering, cruel treatment of defendants 
and subordinants alike. I borrow from the clear words of 
credible sources in court documents and official memoes. 
It's a turkey shoot, because at this point the patterns of 
narcissistic abuse within the Prosecutor's Office are so 
numerous and clear. And I worry that people who can't laugh 
might succumb to despair.

# See The custody trial

I didn't prevail. The sharpest fact in my failure was the 
time of Emily's death. Had she lived another six months, I 
would be in Pierce County, doing everything Emily asked me 
to do there.

# Ongoing opprobium

Anyone who googles my name sees this. The dishonest police 
reports should not have been accepted as fact, but they 
were. Did Lindquist need to say to the press that 
investigators consider me a threat? No, and it's a clear 
violation of the rules governing him to do so. Now that the 
court rejected his claim, I don't see him going on TV to 
correct his earlier statements. He thinks he makes TV for a 
living, and the facts come second. That's what I think.

# See The future

I always had a healthy skepticism about the clarity of 
claims made to a court, and by law enforcement on 
television. Now I know for a certainty that some officials 
make deeply misleading statements, and once made, stand by 
their untrue words to the bitter end. Lindquist has 
followed this pattern through more controversies than my 
own. In government, just as in commerce, we are as good as 
our leaders. There's no magic that keeps terrible 
decisionmakers out of power. Terrible people often seek 
power. Some people think it's their birthright, to rule, 
even without accountability. Democracy's tools--including 
institutions like an independent court, a free press, 
standards for lawyers enforced by the Bar Association, and 
regular elections--are society's mechanisms to remove 
terrible leaders. There's absolutely no guarantee these 
tools will work, but they are the best we have.

# One experience, one voice

One big challenge facing people who wish to remove 
Lindquist from office is the inherant complexity of the 
work done by the Prosecutor's office. Most trials include a 
lot of details. How do voters evaluate the quality of the 
prosecutor's work without having to know all the details of 
a trial, enough to make an independent judgement. There are 
sensible approaches to this:

## Wins v. Losses

## Setbacks on appeal

## Bar complaints


